# Openset
In a closed set environment, classiﬁers are trained on examples from a number of known classes and tested with unseen examples belonging to the same set of known classes. However, in most real-world scenarios, a trained classiﬁer is likely to come across novel examples that do not belong to any of the known classes. Such examples should ideally be categorized asbelonging toan unknown class. The goal of an open set classiﬁer isto identify and classify test examples of classes unseen during training. The classiﬁer should be able to declare that a test example belongs to a class it does not know when necessary, and possibly, incorporate it into its knowledge as an example of a new class it has encountered. There is some published research in open set image classiﬁcation, but open set text classiﬁcation remains mostly unexplored. In this thesis, we investigate the suitability of various neuralnetworks,viz. CNN, RNN, HNN and Hierarchical Neural Networks with Attention, for open set text classiﬁcation. We ﬁnd that CNNs are good feature extractors compared to other neural networks and hence perform better than existing state-of-the-art open set classiﬁers in smaller domains meaning training the classiﬁer on a low number of classes and testing the classiﬁer on a high number of classes (e.g., train on 2 classes and test on 10 classes), although their open set classiﬁcation abilities in higher domains (e.g., train on 7 classes and test on 10 classes) in general still need to be explored deeper.
